---
layout: publication
title: "Improving Energy Efficiency of Android Devices by Preventing Redundant Frame Generation"
authors: G. Lee, S. Lee, G. Kim, Y. Choi, R. Ha, H. Cha
conference: ITMCCJ
year: 2018
bibkey: LLK2018

additional_links:
   - {name: "IEEE", url: "https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8372638"}
---
Managing the power consumption of display-related components in mobile devices is difficult because of performance degradation. Therefore, eliminating hidden workloads, such as redundant frames, is preferable, as it directly reduces power without affecting the user experience. Our preliminary study shows that the default launcher of the Android Open Source Project (AOSP) and popular applications, such as Instagram and Pinterest, generate redundant frames. In this paper, we propose a scheme to optimize the power consumption of the smartphone's display-related components by preventing redundant frames generation. By analyzing the frame-generation process, we observe that redundant frame generation is possible in the current Android framework. We then propose a scheme that recognizes and prevents redundant frame generation before actual frame generation (i.e., frame rendering in the GPU). The proposed scheme utilizes a display list, which was introduced in recent Android smartphones for efficient frame generation. We implemented the proposed scheme on Nexus smartphones. On the Nexus 5, the proposed solution reduced the energy of the AOSP default launcher, Instagram, and Pinterest by 40, 35.4, and 39.6 percent, respectively. Furthermore, the experimental results with a general usage scenario showed that our scheme prevented about 35 percent of redundant frame generation with a false-positive rate of 1.8 percent.

