---
layout: publication
title: "Person Footprint of uncertainty-based CWW model for power optimization in handheld devices"
authors: P. K. Muhuri, P. K. Gupta, J. M. Mendel
conference: USENIX
year: 2019
bibkey: MGM2019

additional_links:
   - {name: "IEEE", url: "https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8691473"}
---
Present-day handheld battery-enabled devices such as smartphones and tablets attract rich user experience but are often criticized for their short battery lives. Battery life is a subjective term and depends on a user's perceptions. A novel work to achieve power optimization for these devices, according to users' perceptions, was the design of user-satisfaction-aware power management approach, perceptual computer power management approach (Per-C PMA). But we have found that the design of Per-C PMA requires collection of data intervals from a group of subjects. This limits the practical viability of Per-C PMA for highly personal handheld battery-enabled devices such as smartphones and tablets. So, here we propose a user-satisfaction-aware PMA called Per-C for Personalized Power Management Approach or “Per-C PPMA,” one that achieves significant reductions in power consumption compared to existing PMAs and noticeable improvements in the overall user satisfaction. Per-C PPMA uses the mathematical technique of person footprint of uncertainty (FOU) to process users' linguistic opinions. Person FOU can either use an interval approach (IA) or Hao-Mendel approach (HMA) for data processing. The recommendations generated using IA and HMA are the same. However, IA takes a much higher computational time than HMA, even though both have the same asymptotic complexity of O(w * n). We strongly believe that Per-C PPMA is a novel technique and our work is the first such application of Person FOU on any hardware platform. An important outcome of this study is a ready-to-use mobile app “Per-C PPMA” (currently freely available on the website http://www.sau.int/~cilab/).

